[THEME MUSIC]
>> As psychedelic healing
and plant medicine goes more
mainstream luxury psychedelic
tourism is on the rise.
Good news for the
spread of this medicine.
But how might over-commercialism
affect this sacred practice?
This is "Gaia News."
A recent Bloomberg
article highlights
the rise in luxury all-inclusive
psychedelic retreats.
Indigenous plant medicines
have been around for centuries.
And their health
benefits have been
scientifically demonstrated.
But as they gain
mainstream acceptance
and find a bigger audience
some only see dollar signs.
Bloomberg reports, "according
to Data Bridge Market Research,
the psychedelic
market is projected
to grow from $3.8 billion in
2020 to $10.7 billion by 2027."
With the potential to
make a lot of money,
could some
unscrupulous companies
capitalize on this trend
and remove the sanctity
of this sacred practice?
Specifically
regarding ayahuasca.
Carlos Tanner is the director
of the Ayahuasca Foundation
in Peru.
He founded the center
in 2009, as the result
of his own healing journey.
>> When I started
our retreat center,
the Ayahuasca Foundation, I
was coming off of a seven-year
study myself.
Like, a four-year apprenticeship
where I lived with a Curandero.
And then several
years after that was
studying with other teachers.
And most people that
were starting centers
at that time, which wasn't that
many, you were a student first.
And eventually, after years of
study, you came to the point
where you wanted to
offer this to people
from outside of the culture.
Now we see people that don't
have very much experience
at all, but yet, they're
opening a healing center.
>> As this budding industry
is dealing with rapid growth
there's some complicated
issues regarding its increased
popularity.
>> When it comes to the
commercialization of substances
that have an ancestral
background I would say that it
is a delicate situation.
And I hope that there would be
a benefit to those Indigenous
populations from which those
traditions were originated.
But at the same time, I
know many Indigenous people
and they are for the
spreading of what they
believe to be their culture.
Which, oftentimes, was something
that was looked upon negatively
or was degraded as if they were
second class citizens, quite
literally.
But now, like, having people
from the Western world,
from the modern world want
to learn or experience
elements of their
culture, I think,
gives them a sense of pride.
So it's a complex
question, to say the least.
>> What are the pros and cons of
making ancestral plant medicine
more accessible to
a wider audience?
>> The pros would obviously
be that they can--
they'll be able to select
from a wider or higher range
of comfort level.
Whereas in the past
your comfort level
was only going to get so high.
You know?
Because there really
wasn't this luxury
level of ayahuasca retreat
or even psychedelic retreat.
You're basically in an
uncomfortable environment
and it wasn't made
very comfortable
the way that a lot of
tourists expect comfort to be.
The con, on the
flip side of that,
would be that there
is actually, a lot
of benefit from the
environmental influence.
It's not necessarily,
mosquitoes biting you or heat.
But your proximity to the
rainforest or your proximity
to the land where the
Indigenous tribes actually live.
The resort might be beautiful
and they've got a great pool,
but the person who's
leading the ceremonies
isn't connected to
that environment.
They don't have a
biological resonance
with that environment.
And they don't have
access to the plants
that they would
use in conjunction
with the psychedelic therapies.
>> Carlos believes even though
the benefits of plant medicine
can be attained anywhere,
the act of stepping out
of your comfort zone can
only add to the experience.
>> If you decide to do an
ayahuasca retreat in the Amazon
rainforest, it's almost
like making a pilgrimage.
Whereas, if you don't have
to do much to get there,
there isn't some
journey involved just
to get to that
process I feel you're
less likely to have that
same level of activation.
Because you don't have that
same level of determination
demonstrated to yourself.
And so, I know the
results of doing a retreat
or attending ceremonies
or receiving treatment
in its Native setting
and especially,
if it's, kind of, an
uncomfortable setting
or if it's a challenging
setting will be higher.
>> As psychedelic therapies grow
in popularity and more people
decide to try it, remember.
This is strong medicine
and should only
be undertaken under
supervision of a trained guide.
For a new perspective,
this is "Gaia News."
For more information
on this topic,
check out this
content on "Gaia."